The following guidelines serve as a method for how to collect quantitative EDX data from the TEM using the standards based
EDX cross section approach. This method has been specificallt written for a FEI Titan ChemiSTEM with Gatan Enfinium
Spectrometer. However it should be relative easily transferable to other microscope setups.

STEP ONE:

A standard sample is needed for each element to be quantified. In the case of metals should be a pure element 
sample. It may also be possible to quantify using stoichiometric compounds for those elements which cannot easily be abtained
in pure form. 

A wedge sample should be prepared in the FIB with a wedge angle of between 0.5 and 1.5 Degrees. This angle needs to be large
enough that the sample is stable under the beam and the point of x-ray absorption is visible in the sample. It should also be
small enough that there is a reasonable range of thicknesses in the linear regime for which to do a line scan over.

The angle of the wedge can be experimentally determined using a t/lambda analysis and the workbook entitled 'Wedge - EELS
Analysis'. A useful tool to determine lamba can be found at the following link:

http://tpm.amc.anl.gov/NJZTools/NTLambdaV2.html

Once the angle for each of the elemental wedge standards has been determined, proceed to step two.

STEP TWO - Probe Current Measurements:

For each EDX map an accurate probe current measurement needs to be taken. Ideally this should include an error bar in the
measurement for subsequent error analysis. The simplest method available in most microscopes is to use the Gatan EELS
Spectrometer, outlined below. Alternatively, a Picoammeter could be used, however it needs to be built into the microscope
rather than in a specimen holder such that repeat measurements can be made for every EDX map.

1. Check that there is no voltage bias applied to the spectrometer prism, in the Filter Control box. This should be done at
least half an hour prior to making the probe current measurement to allow time for the prism to relax again. Otherwise a dark
current will interfere with our probe current measurement.

2. Next, in Digital micrograph, make sure you are in 'Superuser mode'. Change the 'Primary Voltage' to less than 50% of the
incident beam energy ie for a 200kV incident beam energy, lower the beam energy in the spectrometer down to 100 or 80kV. This
is so that the beam is no longer deflected sufficiently by the prism, instead it will plough completely into the side.

3. Find a hole in the specimen.

4. In the case of some spectrometers we also need to run one more program. With some spectrometers (to protect the detector)
the shutter only opens during an acquisition, unless we run a program to force it to stay open. On the microscope controlling
computer, a program such as ShutterControl should be run. 

5. In the global tags under “DriftTubeCurrent” is the tag “print”. If you set this to 1 then the output readings will also be
written into the results window. This will allow a plotting of the current readout with time so that the jump and error can
be measure. Finally, run the ProbeCurrent plugin in Digital Micrograph. Start the measurement with the screen down and then
lift and screen up whilst the measurement is taking place.
